HARI SREENIVASAN: Good evening.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
Gwen Ifill and Judy Woodruff are
in Milwaukee
for tonight's Democratic debate.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: In a
pivotal moment,
Bernie Sanders and Hillary
Clinton face off,
the first encounter since New
Hampshire's
results.
Also ahead: in part two of our
Egypt series,
a look at their heavy handed
judiciary system.
LAILA SOUEIF, Egyptian Activist:
They have
this crazy idea that you can
teach a whole
population manners by putting
them in jail.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Plus, Einstein
was right
again. After 50 years of
research, scientists
detect the sound of two black
holes colliding,
proof gravitational waves do
exist.
All that and more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
HARI SREENIVASAN: Milwaukee is
the center
of the Democratic political
universe tonight.
The candidates meet for a "PBS
NewsHour" presidential
debate, and how they perform on
stage could
influence the next key contests.
Our political director, Lisa
Desjardins, is
in Milwaukee.
LISA DESJARDINS: That's right.
"NewsHour" staff is finishing up
the rehearsals
on our debate stage for what is
expected to
be a powerful and maybe even
pivotal debate
between Bernie Sanders and
Hillary Clinton,
but the Democrats do not have a
monopoly on
intensity. And, today,
Republicans were also
fighting for votes in their next
primary state,
South Carolina.
SEN. MARCO RUBIO (R-FL),
Presidential Candidate:
This is our youngest, Dominick.
Say hello, Dominick.
DOMINICK RUBIO, Son of Marco
Rubio: Hello.
LISA DESJARDINS: All across the
Palmetto State,
the hopefuls are making tracks,
and taking
their best shots.
Former Florida Governor Jeb Bush
marked his
63rd birthday by stumping with
South Carolina
Senator Lindsey Graham and going
after front-runner
Donald Trump.
JEB BUSH (R), Presidential
Candidate: Do you
want an entertainer- in-chief,
someone who
will say whatever he wants to
make it all
about him, insult people, divide
people, basically
just talk trash on his way to
the Republican
nomination? Or do you want
someone who has
been tested? Because, if you do,
I'm your
man.
LISA DESJARDINS: Bush's fellow
Floridian,
Senator Marco Rubio, took a
different line
of attack today, near Hilton
Head.
SEN. MARCO RUBIO: Donald Trump
has zero foreign
policy experience. Negotiating a
hotel deal
in another country is not
foreign policy experience.
(LAUGHTER)
SEN. MARCO RUBIO: Jeb Bush has
no foreign
experience, period.
LISA DESJARDINS: Rubio said he's
ready for
a long slog to the party's
nomination and
even a brokered Republican
Convention this
summer, likewise Ohio Governor
John Kasich,
who placed second in New
Hampshire. He told
CNN last night he doesn't expect
to win in
South Carolina. But he said
today he means
to keep campaigning.
GOV. JOHN KASICH (R-OH),
Presidential Candidate:
We are going to do our best
here. I'm a scrappy
guy. And we are going to move
all across the
country.
LISA DESJARDINS: Meanwhile,
Trump talked of
sweeping away his opponents at a
campaign
stop in Clemson last night.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
We win here, we're going to run
the table.
If we win here, after winning so
big in New
Hampshire, all of these
characters are going
to give it up.
LISA DESJARDINS: On the
Democratic side, Bernie
Sanders sized up the state of
the race on
CBS' "Late Show With Stephen
Colbert" last
night.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (VT-I),
Presidential Candidate:
I think a lot of Donald Trump
supporters are
angry. People have a right to be
angry. But
what we need to be is rational
in figuring
out how we address the problems,
and not just
simply scapegoating minorities.
LISA DESJARDINS: Rival Hillary
Clinton hopes
to draw on her strength with
minorities. She
picked up a key endorsement
today from the
Congressional Black Caucus PAC.
REP. CEDRIC RICHMOND (D),
Louisiana: Our brains
and our intelligence tells us
what our conscience
confirms, that the best person
to be the next
president of the United States
is Hillary
Rodham Clinton.
LISA DESJARDINS: Georgia
Congressman and civil
rights veteran John Lewis went
further, questioning
Sanders' claim that he worked
for racial justice
in the 1960s.
REP. JOHN LEWIS (D), Georgia: I
never saw
him. I never met him.
I was involved in the sit-ins,
the Freedom
Ride, the March on Washington,
the march from
Selma to Montgomery and directed
the Voter
Education Project for six years.
But I met Hillary Clinton. I met
President
Clinton.
LISA DESJARDINS: Both Clinton
and Sanders
largely stayed out of sight
today, as they
prepped for tonight's debate
here in Milwaukee.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Lisa joins us
now, along
with Amy Walter of The Cook
Political Report
Lisa, I want to start with you.
How close
is this race heading into
tonight's debate?
LISA DESJARDINS: It is a real
horse race.
It is not the race we thought it
was three
or four months ago.
Bernie Sanders has momentum, so
I don't want
to say that there's really a
front-runner
at this point. Hillary Clinton
has more of
what are called superdelegates.
I know you
like to talk about that, Amy.
But Bernie's
got momentum. So, we have a real
race. I don't
think -- I don't want to say
there is a front-runner
right now.
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: We
have had a obviously very
contested contest
in Iowa that Hillary narrowly
won. Bernie
came out of New Hampshire, big,
big win.
The real question now, we head
to Nevada and
South Carolina, which are
demographically
very different, stylistically
very different.
This is what Hillary Clinton has
always thought
was going to be her so-called
firewall, because
it's a much more diverse state,
not quite
as liberal as those other two.
That's why she needs to have a
strong debate
tonight going into what we will
soon see in
Nevada and South Carolina.
TAMARA KEITH, National Public
Radio: Absolutely.
And, today, you can tell how
important these
voters are, because -- and how
the landscape
has shifted, because Bernie
Sanders was announcing
an endorsement from Harry
Belafonte. Meanwhile,
Hillary Clinton has a number of
members of
the Congressional Black Caucus
holding a press
conference singing her praises.
This has definitely
shifted to the next states,
where the electorate...
LISA DESJARDINS: The non-white
vote is more
important.
TAMARA KEITH: Yes, where the
electorate reflects
the Democratic Party as a whole.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right, let
me get to
that question.
Tamara, I want to start with
you. So, who
do they need to appeal to
through this debate
and beyond?
TAMARA KEITH: It's not -- it's
all of the
Democratic electorate, and I
think Hillary
Clinton especially has work to
do, at least
based on the exit polls that we
saw from New
Hampshire.
She lost -- she lost women. She
lost young
people.
LISA DESJARDINS: Almost every
age group.
AMY WALTER: Basically,
everybody.
TAMARA KEITH: Everybody, except
people earning
more than $200,000 a year.
And so she really needs to come
out on this
debate stage, and, as she said
Tuesday night,
she has work to do. She needs to
do that work
and needs to present herself as
more than
a resume and a pile of white
papers.
AMY WALTER: You know, young
people are something
that she is definitely going to
need to do
much better with.
She was losing not just by the
margins she
lost to Obama, which were big,
but by 70 -- 70,
80 points. That is really
unprecedented. Her
challenge, I think, is a little
bit like a
parent at Christmas, when you
have to admit
that there is no Santa Claus,
but still keep
the magic of the holiday.
LISA DESJARDINS: Wait. There is
no Santa Claus?
AMY WALTER: I'm sorry that I
ruined it for
you.
(LAUGHTER)
LISA DESJARDINS: I will talk to
you afterwards.
AMY WALTER: But that's what
she's confronting
right now with younger people,
who are -- who
do want to be inspired, who see
Bernie Sanders
as aspirational.
She's trying to say, yes, but
let's try to
figure out how we get things
done. How do
you do that in a way that
doesn't undermine
the real energy that the younger
voters have?
LISA DESJARDINS: The pragmatic
vision that
she has, Hari, is not something
that young
people are looking for. They're
looking for
big vision.
But one small grain of hope, I
think, that
I saw out of New Hampshire -- I
don't know
if you guys saw this -- in the
exit polls,
she did win with people who
decided that day
at the polls, just by a little
bit. So that
might give her the idea that
standing on this
stage tonight, Hari, maybe she
can turn around
some people who are on the fence
who are still
deciding. That's what she's
counting on.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Amy, I want to
ask -- start with you. What are
you looking
for from each of the candidates
tonight?
AMY WALTER: From Hillary
Clinton's perspective,
it is this balance of Santa
Claus and spirit
of the holiday that I was
discussing. But
it's also pressing Bernie
Sanders on specifics.
He has been able to talk about
this big, inspirational,
aspirational message, without
getting nailed
down on how that's actually
going to work.
How can she get him to specify
those things?
And also looking for her to
really hone in
on her message.
I went back and I looked at all
the Hillary
Clinton ads that have been run
since the summer,
and it's kind of a mishmash.
There's a little
bit of everything here. You have
some guns.
You have some pay equity. You
have talk about
work she did with children and
women.
What is her message? We know
what Bernie Sanders'
message is. It's all about the
economy being
rigged and Wall Street is not on
your side.
Where is Hillary Clinton going
to find that
message?
TAMARA KEITH: And I think, for
Bernie Sanders,
it's really about, can he get
beyond the talking
points, beyond the slogans, and
can he, you
know, dig in on foreign policy,
beyond saying,
I voted against the Iraq War, I
have got the
judgment?
On the -- on health care, on
some of these
other things, can he really get
into the weeds
with it? And I think Hillary
Clinton is going
to try to press him to do that.
LISA DESJARDINS: And, Hari, I
think our viewers
should know that, in organizing
this debate,
I know the thing that Gwen and
Judy really
care about the most is, they
want to try and
show the differences between
these two candidates.
They're similar in a lot of
ways, but they
are really hoping to focus on
issues and substance
tonight and drill down on, what
kind of a
different president would each
of them make?
So, we will see.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Lisa Desjardins,
our political director, Amy
Walter from the
Cook Political Report, and
Tamara Keith from
NPR, thanks so much.
In the day's other news: A
federal judge ordered
that all of Hillary Clinton's
remaining e-mails
as secretary of state be
released this month.
They were to have been released
by the end
of January, but the State
Department asked
for an extension. Clinton's use
of a private
e-mail server during her time at
State has
dogged her presidential campaign
and triggered
an FBI investigation.
The last four occupiers of a
national wildlife
refuge in Oregon surrendered
today, after
a six-week standoff. With that,
law enforcement
pulled back after tense hours of
negotiations,
and local people welcomed the
outcome.
WOMAN: I just posted
"Hallelujah" on my Facebook
post, and I think that says it
all. I am so
glad this is over. I have lived
in Eastern
Oregon or Northern Nevada my
entire life.
And I have never, ever in 70
years locked
the doors to my house until this
happened.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Authorities
also arrested
Cliven Bundy yesterday on
charges from a confrontation
in Nevada. His son Ammon led the
Oregon standoff
before being arrested himself.
A battle erupted at a prison in
Northern Mexico
overnight, and when it was over,
52 inmates
were dead. Officials in
Monterrey said the
fighting pitted factions linked
to rival drug
cartels. TV broadcasts showed
part of the
facility burning as crowds of
inmates' relatives
gathered outside. They demanded
information
from police.
Pope Francis arrives in Mexico
tomorrow, and
will visit a prison in a nearby
state next
week.
NATO defense chiefs ordered
three warships
to the Aegean Sea today to crack
down on gangs
smuggling refugees. After a
meeting in Brussels,
the alliance's secretary-general
said the
ships will assist the Turkish
and Greek coast
guards.
JENS STOLTENBERG, NATO
Secretary-General:
This is not about stopping or
pushing back
refugee boats. NATO will
contribute critical
information and surveillance to
help counter
human trafficking and criminal
networks.
HARI SREENIVASAN: An estimated
76,000 migrants
have reached Europe by sea since
January 1,
10 times more than the same
period last year.
Major powers opened their latest
talks today
on Syria, where a government
offensive and
Russian airstrikes are creating
thousands
of new refugees. Secretary of
State John Kerry
met with Russian Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov.
But there was little sign that
the Russians
will agree to an immediate halt
in their bombing
campaign.
Back in this country, more than
40 Georgia
prison guards have been indicted
on federal
charges of drug trafficking and
taking bribes.
The charges, spelled out today,
are the latest
in a series of indictments since
September.
And a former Los Angeles sheriff
now admits
he lied to federal investigators
in a probe
of jail corruption and prisoner
abuse. Lee
Baca pleaded guilty late
Wednesday to knowing
about efforts to obstruct the
investigation.
To date, 17 members of the
sheriff's department
have been convicted.
The mayor of Cleveland
apologized today, after
the city billed the estate of
Tamir Rice for
ambulance services. The
12-year-old boy had
been playing with a pellet gun
when he was
killed by police in 2014.
Mayor Frank Jackson says it was
a mistake
to send the ambulance invoice,
even though
the estate's executor asked for
it.
FRANK JACKSON, Mayor of
Cleveland: Should
it have happened? No, because a
red flag should
have been risen. But that didn't
happen. Did
-- was there -- did anybody do
anything wrong
in this? No, because it's the
normal process.
It's the way in which we do
things internally.
But it's also what the law
requires you to
do.
HARI SREENIVASAN: A Rice family
attorney called
the claim filing deeply
disturbing.
There's word that utility crews
have finally
plugged a natural gas leak near
Los Angeles.
The leak started nearly four
months ago, and
drove thousands of people from
their homes.
They will be allowed back once
state inspectors
declare the well permanently
sealed.
President Obama has made his
choice for secretary
of education. He's Dr. John B.
King Jr., and
he's been acting secretary since
Arne Duncan
stepped down in December. He's
also served
as state commissioner of
education in New
York.
Wall Street took another beating
over worries
about global growth. The Dow
Jones industrial
average lost more than 250
points to close
at 15660. The Nasdaq fell 16
points, and the
S&P 500 dropped 22.
And the Senate gave final
approval today to
blocking state and local
governments from
taxing Internet access
permanently. Seven
states now collect such taxes,
but under this
measure, they will have to stop
by 2020.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
the fight
for freedom of speech five years
after Egypt's
revolution; proof of Einstein's
universe-changing
theory on gravitational waves;
the first puppies
created using in vitro
fertilization; and
much more.
Five years ago today, Egypt's
longtime ruler,
Hosni Mubarak, was removed from
power. And
he was soon jailed by Egypt's
judicial system.
Today, he is held in a military
hospital,
charged with ordering the
killings of protesters
and awaiting retrial. The court
system in
Egypt has played an essential
role in the
turbulent times that followed
Mubarak's ouster.
The elected president after
Mubarak, Mohammed
Morsi, who was deposed by the
army, sits in
prison today, sentenced to
death.
Under current President Abdel
Fattah El-Sisi,
the courts have jailed tens of
thousands of
opposition figures. He claims
the decisions
are out of his hands.
Tonight, special correspondent
Nick Schifrin
examines the role of the justice
system in
Egyptian society for our series
5 Years On.
NICK SCHIFRIN: No Egyptian
family has fought
for justice more tirelessly than
the Seifs.
Alaa Abdel Fattah is a symbol of
the revolution,
imprisoned by the current
government. His
sister Mona Seif leads campaigns
against military
trials of civilians. And last
month, Sanaa
Seif, the youngest daughter, was
the only
left-wing demonstrator to
commemorate the
Arab Spring's fifth revolution.
Her jackets
reads, "The January 25
revolution continues."
The siblings have learned their
lessons from
their parents.
LAILA SOUEIF, Egyptian Activist:
The justice
apparatus is completely failed
at the moment.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Their mother is
Laila Soueif,
one of Egypt's most prominent
activists. That's
her on the right yelling at
plainclothes police.
She has protested against six
governments
over 42 years.
LAILA SOUEIF: It's my duty to do
this, so
that at least everyone remembers
that they
do not have the right to push
people around.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Their father,
Ahmed Seif, was
Egypt's leading human rights
lawyer. Today,
Laila believes the judiciary is
out of control.
LAILA SOUEIF: That they have
this crazy idea
that you can teach a whole
population manners
by putting them in jail.
NICK SCHIFRIN: A judge sentenced
Alaa to five
years in prison for protesting
against what
he saw as the military taking
over the courts.
Sanaa was sentenced to three
years for protesting
against a law that bans
protests.
Mona has been detained, and is
currently awaiting
a suspended sentence.
MONA SEIF, Egyptian Activist:
The judges have
become self-motivated to squash
opposition
movement and to imprison any
rebelling youth
that they don't think are
accommodating to
the conservative ideas.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Those
conservative, to the
point of iron-fist ideas are
embodied by the
man they call the executioner
judge, Nagy
Shehata. Last January he
ratified a mass death
sentence of 183 suspects,
despite evidence
they'd been tortured.
He sentenced 230 people at once
to life in
prison, even though police
killed many of
the demonstrators.
NAGY SHEHATA, Judge (through
translator):
I confirm, execution for the
crimes they are
accused of. And the accused are
obliged to
pay the trial fees. The session
is adjourned.
NICK SCHIFRIN: And when activist
Ahmed Douma
asked Shehata about his personal
Facebook
page, the judge added three
years to his sentence.
LAILA SOUEIF: This is just
sloppy work. And
when you're a judge, sloppy work
is a crime.
NICK SCHIFRIN: It wasn't always
like this.
Before the revolution, Egyptians
took pride
in their judiciary as fiercely
independent.
Today, judges and their
defenders say the
judiciary is still independent,
but focused
on one specific thing:
maintaining peace and
security.
DAVID RISLEY, Former Legal
Adviser to U.S.
Embassy: And the judiciary value
order and
public safety almost above
everything else.
NICK SCHIFRIN: For four years
David Risley
was the U.S. legal adviser and
diplomatic
attache to Egypt's judiciary. He
believes
Egyptian judges see violence on
the streets
and believe their job is to
restore stability.
DAVID RISLEY: Some judges simply
felt that
they are doing what needed to be
done for
the good of the country,
judicious or not.
NICK SCHIFRIN: "PBS NewsHour"
called dozens
of Egyptian judges. Each
declined to be interviewed.
Western diplomats say the
judges, in private,
argue that Egyptians are willing
to give up
some rights to keep order. But
the Seifs argue,
even if that's true, today's
judges fail to
deliver.
MONA SEIF: They have had their
100 percent
freedom to do whatever they want
to do for
the past two years. And order
has not returned.
Justice has not prevailed.
LAILA SOUEIF: You do not bring
security or
stability by being
unprofessional. You bring
security and stability by
behaving like the
judge who sentenced my husband.
That -- that
is bringing security and
stability.
NICK SCHIFRIN: When Ahmed Seif
was arrested
in 1983, his judge investigated
whether he
had been tortured.
LAILA SOUEIF: And he threw out
the evidence
that was obtained by torture.
There was a
certain amount of adherence to
the law.
NICK SCHIFRIN: And now?
LAILA SOUEIF: Now? Now you have
judges who
are not just unprofessional.
They're ignorant.
They don't know the -- they
don't know the
statues of the law.
NICK SCHIFRIN: But just like in
the U.S.,
Egypt's higher courts can
overrule lower courts'
harsh sentences. And that is
exactly what
has happened.
DAVID RISLEY: On appeal, these
sorts of injudicious
mass convictions, mass death
penalties are
being consistently reversed,
that it makes
one wonder whether the real
purpose in these
mass convictions is not so much
to -- an expectation
that the defendants who are
convicted will
ultimately be punished, but
rather that they
are tied up and detained for an
extended period
of time.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Mona fights those
lengthy detentions.
She and other activists attempt
to document
Egypt's 40,000 political
prisoners. They're
trying to shine a light on a
system they call
a black box.
MONA SEIF: You can have a
first-degree relative
who is now detained, faces
prosecution, and
gets sentences, and you can't --
and you don't
even know. And you don't even
check on him
or get a lawyer to attend with
him.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Because no one
has access to...
(CROSSTALK)
MONA SEIF: Because no one has
access to it.
NICK SCHIFRIN: The Seifs have
been willing
to put everything into the
cause, their children
their health, their freedom. The
two parents
and three children have been to
jail a combined
10 times. It hasn't been easy.
Ahmed died when Alaa and Sanaa
were both in
prison. The campaign to release
them was titled
Injustice Has Taken Them Away
From Us.
What is it like to have two of
your children
in prison? Then how can you even
handle that?
LAILA SOUEIF: You just turn it
into practicalities.
You get through a day at a time.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Because if you
didn't?
LAILA SOUEIF: And I don't know
how you would
live.
The bright spot? Laila's first
grandson, Alaa's
son, 4-year-old Khalid (ph). His
toys fill
her living room.
LAILA SOUEIF: That's about the
only thing
that consistently -- that makes
me consistently
happy at the moment.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Is your grandson.
Laila shows me her favorite
family photos.
In one, Khalid is laughing with
his mother.
His father, above them, is
actually just a
poster. Khalid was born when
Alaa was in prison.
Mona was born when her father
was in prison.
Despite all of the sacrifices
your family
has made, it's been worth it?
She says it will be worth it if
their sacrifices
today mean her grandson doesn't
have to fight
the same battles or go to the
same jails tomorrow.
Nick Schifrin, "PBS NewsHour,"
Cairo.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Tune in
tomorrow night for
Nick's final piece on the role
of women in
the tumultuous five years since
the revolution.
Now some truly cosmic news.
The sound of two black holes
colliding more
than a billion years ago, it was
recorded
by a team of scientists at the
LIGO Observatory,
proof of gravitational waves, or
ripples in
time and space, first theorized
by Albert
Einstein.
We explore this monumental
moment in physics
with Dave Reitze of Caltech,
executive director
of the LIGO Laboratory.
Now, that was a rudimentary
attempt at explaining
what a gravitational wave is.
But what are
they, and why is it such a big
deal to find
one?
DAVID REITZE, California
Institute of Technology:
Actually, you did a pretty good
job.
So, gravitational waves are
fluctuations in
space-time. And any time you
have a mass,
something that has matter in it,
accelerating,
all right, it produces a
gravitational wave.
All right? And that's a
consequence of Einstein's
theory of general relativity.
Now, these particular
gravitational waves,
in order to be able to detect
them, you need
really, truly massive objects.
So, in this
case, these were black holes
that had about
30 times the mass of the sun in
them.
So, why gravitational waves are
so interesting
is that they tell us something
about the universe
that you can't get from any
other kind of
astronomy. So, if you think
about optical
astronomy, that looks at certain
classes of
light. If you look at radio
astronomy -- so
gravitational waves are
completely different.
They come from a different
sector of the universe,
and that's why they're so
exciting.
HARI SREENIVASAN: OK. So
Einstein is sitting
at his patent clerk's office
thinking about
this big thought, and what is
the connection
to space-time?
DAVE REITZE: Yes.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Does time and
space bend?
And if you heard or saw, so to
speak, this
moment, does that mean that time
and space
bent just a little bit at those
points?
DAVE REITZE: Oh, in fact, this
particular
event was, as my colleague Kip
Thorne calls
it, a storm in space-time.
All right? As these two black
holes came together
and collided, they really
disrupted space-time
and produced this burst of
gravitational radiation.
It's interesting that you
mention Einstein.
Gravitational waves were first
predicted actually
100 years ago. And Einstein
himself, all right,
thought it was an interesting
consequence
of the theory of relativity, but
didn't think
that it had any practical value,
because he
said that the effect is so tiny
that we will
never be able to measure them.
And it took 100 years from the
time that he
predicted them to the time we
have been able
to measure them.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And, also, to
measure them,
you have very giant antennae
that most people
probably haven't heard about
until today,
one in Louisiana and Washington.
Describe
those.
DAVE REITZE: So, these are two
interferometers.
Interferometer is a -- basically
a type of
laser measuring device. A laser
goes out.
It goes -- it gets split. It
goes along the
arms of the interferometers. And
they're very
long. The arms are very long.
They're two-and-a-half-miles
long. Comes back. We do a lot of
tricks to
make the interferometer very
sensitive.
And as a gravitational wave
passes, what it
does is, it stretches and
squeezes the light
between the arms of the
interferometer. And
because light is made up of
waves, we use
the fact that that stretching
and squeezing
changes the relative
relationship, the phase,
if you will, between the waves.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, do we --
how is it that
we got this sound? I mean, these
are lasers,
and you're seeing the disruption
or change
in light.
DAVE REITZE: Yes.
HARI SREENIVASAN: What does that
mean to say,
we heard two black holes?
DAVE REITZE: Right.
So the interferometers are very
nice. They
basically -- the light goes on
in the detector,
and the frequency that these
gravitational
waves were generated by these
two block holes
is in the audio band. So, you
could literally
-- it's like a C.D. player. You
put a plug into the detector and
put headphones
on, after a little bit of data
processing
and filtering.
It's not perfect, but after a
little bit of
data processing and filtering,
you can actually
hear the signal. And it's a very
interesting
signal. It goes whoop like that.
Actually,
it goes a little bit lower, but
that gives
you the idea.
HARI SREENIVASAN: OK. All right.
But what does this mean for
science? Does
this mean that there's new
branches of study
that have opened up? What are
things that
people are going to think about
now because
you have this moment?
DAVE REITZE: Yes.
I think there are two things
that are important
here. First of all, it's really
a big confirmation
that gravitational waves exist.
Now, we knew
they existed. There was a nice
experiment
done by Hulse, Taylor, and
Weisberg early
on using radio waves. But this
is the first
direct measurement of them, and
so that's
exciting.
But I think the thing that's
more exciting
about it is, this opens up a
completely new
way of looking at the universe.
So, everything
we know about the universe, we
know from light,
electromagnetic radiation.
This is the first time that the
universe is
communicating to us using
gravitational waves.
So, it's like the cosmos is
talking to us.
HARI SREENIVASAN: OK. This makes
me think
of all the sci-fi movies that
are going to
spin off from this. Right?
DAVE REITZE: Yes.
HARI SREENIVASAN: If we can
measure that space
and time are bending and it's
happening all
around us, we just happen have
to have these
two little antennas on this tiny
little planet,
it's probably happening all over
the universe.
DAVE REITZE: Right.
Oh, yes, sure, sure, sure, sure.
And we hope
that we will be able to hear
more of more
of these things as they go
along. And I should
point out that this is only the
beginning,
that we're actually -- there are
projects
that are undergoing in Japan.
There's one
in Italy right now that is
undergoing. We're
hoping to put a gravitational
wave detector
in India, because the more you
have of these
things, the more ears you have,
then actually
that gives you a huge advantage.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Dave Reitze from
Caltech, thanks so much for
joining us.
DAVE REITZE: Thank you. Been my
pleasure.
HARI SREENIVASAN: We have more
on Einstein's
theory and why it was so
revolutionary when
he posed it more than 100 years
ago.
Theoretical physicist Sean
Carroll wrote about
the twists and turns of
space-time in the
universe, and you can read that
essay on our
home page, PBS.org/NewsHour.
Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": the
economics
of online dating; "City of
Thorns," a look
inside the world's largest
refugee camp; and
comedian Billy Eichner explains
why he ambushes
people on the street.
But first, now to another
scientific breakthrough.
The planet is currently in the
midst of an
extinction crisis. As global
climate changes
and habitats disappear, species
all over the
world are at risk of being lost.
Breeding
these endangered animals is one
of the tools
researchers can use to combat
this decline,
but that can be difficult to
accomplish.
A recent innovation here in the
U.S. has given
new hope for some wolf species.
"NewsHour" science producer
Nsikan Akpan has
the story of the young puppies
that may help
save the rest of the pack.
NSIKAN AKPAN: It may be hard to
believe, but
these adorable puppies and how
they came into
the world might be the key to
saving a whole
host of endangered species.
At the Smithsonian Conservation
Biology Institute
in Front Royal, Virginia,
scientists are developing
state-of-the-art reproduction
techniques to
try and save endangered species.
At the institute,
you will find everything from
cheetahs to
black-footed ferrets.
The scientists here are
perfecting tools like
artificial insemination and in
vitro fertilization
to help the breeding of those
endangered animals.
A marquee case is the maned
wolf. They're
an endangered member of canid
the family,
which includes wolves, foxes,
and dogs. They're
from South America.
Smithsonian conservation
biologist Nucharin
Songsasen says most of the
wolves' forest
habitat has been lost to farming
and human
development.
NUCHARIN SONGSASEN, Smithsonian
Conservation
Biology Institute: Right now, we
estimate
about 15,000 of them in the
wild. But the
problem with this species is
that their habitat
is gone, that 85 percent is
lost. And only
2 percent of their natural
habitat is protected.
So, the population in the future
is not looking
very bright, because that's no
home for them.
NSIKAN AKPAN: To save the
species, she and
her colleagues are trying to
breed the wolves
in captivity for future
reintroduction to
the wild, but she says that's
tricky.
NUCHARIN SONGSASEN: We hope they
will breed
naturally, but sometimes that's
not always
the case. Sometimes, they have
these incompatibilities,
and they may not like each
other, and they
will not want to have anything
to do with
each other.
NSIKAN AKPAN: Maned wolves are
monogamous,
and females tend to be very
particular when
it comes to choosing a boyfriend
or partner.
That's why scientists need
breeding tools
like in vitro fertilization, or
IVF. IVF is
commonly used in humans. It
first involves
harvesting an egg from the
female and putting
it into a dish. You then insert
the male sperm
into the egg, creating an
embryo, which is
then implanted into the mother.
But reproductive biologist
Jennifer Nagashima
says that, for decades,
scientists have struggled
to make IVF work with dogs and
wolves.
JENNIFER NAGASHIMA, Smithsonian
Conservation
Biology Institute: So, I like to
say that
dogs are a little bit weird.
They have a unique
reproductive physiology and
that's part of
why IVF has really been a
challenge to develop
over the past 40 years.
NSIKAN AKPAN: Nagashima says
that's in part
because canid reproductive
systems have some
particular quirks, like the fact
that females
just don't produce that many
eggs.
JENNIFER NAGASHIMA: Female dogs
only cycle
once or twice a year, and this
is even more
dramatic in wild canids who are
seasonal.
So you only have a population
event once a
year.
And even when that egg is
ovulated, it requires
another two to three days in the
reproductive
tract, or the oviduct, to mature
and become
fertilizable. So, the result of
these two
things means that aren't that
many mature
eggs available to develop
technologies such
as IVF.
NSIKAN AKPAN: So, what Nagashima
and her colleagues
did was to troubleshoot the
entire reproductive
process. They started with basic
dog breeds
like beagles and cocker spaniel,
and then
they figured out the best way
and time to
harvest the eggs.
They even found a way to give
male sperm a
little boost by adding
magnesium.
JENNIFER NAGASHIMA: So, when we
added magnesium
back in, it actually promoted
the motility
of the sperm, so the ability of
it to swim.
NSIKAN AKPAN: So, you just
sprinkle a little
bit of magnesium, makes it a
better swimmer.
JENNIFER NAGASHIMA: Yes. Yes.
Exactly.
(LAUGHTER)
NSIKAN AKPAN: The resulting
embryos were then
frozen. From there, the team had
to determine
the best time to implant the
embryos into
a surrogate mom.
Here's why. The would-be moms
had to be exactly
in synch with the development of
the embryos.
Yet, even after implantation,
the team had
to constantly monitor the health
of the surrogates
to make sure nothing went wrong
with their
pregnancies.
And two months later, success.
Seven healthy
puppies were born.
JENNIFER NAGASHIMA: The puppies
were born
July 10 of 2015, and so they're
just over
five months old right now, and
they are adorable,
healthy bundles of terror and
joy.
(LAUGHTER)
NSIKAN AKPAN: The final
technique was published
in the journal "PLOS ONE." And
the story of
the puppies received worldwide
attention.
Nagashima says these young dogs
are proof
the technique can work. And so
now the hope
is to use it on threatened
species.
JENNIFER NAGASHIMA: The hope for
the maned
wolves and other endangered
canid species
is that we will be able to use
this technology
to help their reproduction, so
to produce
pups where otherwise we may not
be able to.
So, for example, a lot of times
in these very
small populations, if you have a
female that
passes away before she's been
able to breed,
we would really like to be able
to take her
ovaries, collect the eggs,
mature them, and
then use IVF to produce embryos
that would
represent her as a mother.
NSIKAN AKPAN: Most of the litter
were adopted
by the researchers themselves,
because, A,
who wouldn't want one of these
scientific
marvels? And, B, just look at
them.
JENNIFER NAGASHIMA: This is
Cannon (ph). He
is a cocker beagle spaniel --
cocker spaniel-beagle
mix.
(LAUGHTER)
JENNIFER NAGASHIMA: This is
Buddy. He is a
little bunch of joy.
(LAUGHTER)
JENNIFER NAGASHIMA: OK.
NSIKAN AKPAN: Do you tell your
beagle what
he might mean for the survival
of future relatives?
NUCHARIN SONGSASEN: Actually, I
do. I tell
him every day that he is very
important, he
is a superstar. And -- but, you
know, he's
still a puppy. I'm not really
sure that he
understands what that means yet.
But, hopefully,
one day he will understand.
NSIKAN AKPAN: For the "PBS
NewsHour," I'm
Nsikan Akpan, in Front Royal,
Virginia.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Leading up to
Valentine's
Day, Paul Solman takes an encore
look at the
economics of dating, how some
people are using
market principles to overcome
the traditional
impediments to finding the
perfect match.
It's an updated presentation of
our Making
Sense series, which airs every
Thursday.
PAUL SOLMAN: Facebook software
engineer Mike
O'Beirne, 23, AKA cirrussly
online, had been
looking for a date since moving
to New York
four months ago.
MIKE O'BEIRNE, Online Dater: It
was really
at my brother's urgings. He told
me I need
to start going out and dating
people.
PAUL SOLMAN: Ad agency art
director Priyanka
Pulijal, also new to New York,
her love handle,
brbeatingcupcake. The BRB is
Webspeak for
be right back.
PRIYANKA PULIJAL, Online Dater:
I think you
have to meet a lot of different
people to
first understand what you want.
And I think,
once you understand what you
want, you have
a lot of different options.
PAUL SOLMAN: So what did they
want? Each other?
PRIYANKA PULIJAL: Hi. Nice to
meet you.
PAUL SOLMAN: Last February, they
agreed to
let us record their very first
date.
MIKE O'BEIRNE: Do you guys mind
leaving now?
PAUL SOLMAN: OK, we would BRB.
But while we give our daters
some alone time,
we checked in with their online
matchmaker,
OkCupid. Founded a decade ago by
four Harvard
math majors, the site was owned
by IAC, the
same media conglomerate that ran
Match.com,
which charges a monthly fee, and
the mobile
app Tinder.
CHRISTIAN RUDDER, Founder,
OkCupid: Between
OkCupid, Tinder or Match, we
will sign up
easily over 30 million people
this year alone.
PAUL SOLMAN: That was OkCupid
co-founder and
president Christian Rudder nine
months before
AIC spun off the dating Web
sites, selling
stock in them to the public via
an IPO.
There was already plenty of
competition, though;
eHarmony was big. And niche
sites were trending,
for Jews, Christians, farmers,
sea captains,
mimes, the gluten-free, the
incarcerated,
the unhappily married, and of
course, accompanied
by Mozart.
WOMAN: Welcome to
Purrsonals.com. As a fellow
cat owner, I know how finicky we
are.
PAUL SOLMAN: But no matter how
finicky, you're
better off with more than less.
CHRISTIAN RUDDER: Imagine a
mixer with three
people. That would be a pretty
rough, pretty
rough hour if you lasted even
that long there.
But OkCupid, metaphorically
speaking, is a
mixer with four million people.
PAUL SOLMAN: In the language of
economics,
the study of maximizing human
welfare, this
is what's known as a thick
market.
PAUL OYER, Author, "Everything I
Ever Needed
to Know about Economics: I
Learned from Online
Dating": Where would you rather
buy a pair
of pants, at the Mall of America
or on the
streets of a small town in
Oklahoma?
PAUL SOLMAN: Economist Paul Oyer
has actually
written a book, Everything I
Ever Needed to
Know about Economics I Learned
from Online
Dating, based on his own
adventures looking
for love.
PAUL OYER: So, I found myself
back in the
dating market in the fall of
2010, and, immediately,
as an economist, I saw that this
was a market
like so many others.
PAUL SOLMAN: Well, not any old
market, like
the one for pants. This is a
market for what
economists call differentiated
goods.
PAUL OYER: No two potential life
partners
are the same. Every single one
of them is
different. From an economics
perspective,
searching for a partner is just
cost-benefit
analysis.
(LAUGHTER)
PAUL OYER: This isn't funny.
PAUL OYER: This is economics.
PAUL SOLMAN: And that analysis
includes, in
the lingo of economics, search
costs.
PAUL OYER: It takes time and
effort to find
your mate. You have to set up
your dating
profile. You have to go on a lot
of dates
that don't go anywhere. These
frictions, the
time spent looking for a mate,
lead to loneliness
or, as I like to say, romantic
unemployment.
PAUL SOLMAN: Oyer found himself
romantically
unemployed when he first took
the online dating
plunge, as it happens, on
OkCupid, and had
written separated on his
profile. But at least
he didn't say he was actually
unemployed or
drug-happy or a glutton, even
bigger turnoffs.
Those are among the tidbits
gleaned from the
millions of responses in
OkCupid's database,
shared by Christian Rudder in
his book Dataclysm,
not that all are exactly
shockers.
CHRISTIAN RUDDER: When people
come to a dating
site, all they look at is the
pictures, for
the most part.
PAUL SOLMAN: Rudder has since
left OkCupid,
but beneath the sidewalks of New
York, Erika
Christensen is still hawking
what is arguably
a more discriminating approach.
ERIKA CHRISTENSEN,
Trainspottings.com: You
are very handsome. Are you
single, by any
chance? If you find yourself
single, I'm a
matchmaker.
PAUL SOLMAN: Yes, a real live
matchmaker whose
turf happens to be the subway.
ERIKA CHRISTENSEN: You are very
handsome.
PAUL SOLMAN: The days leading up
to Valentine's
Day are the busiest of the year
for this Hello
Dolly of the L Train, at the
moment, looking
for lasting love on behalf of
two 30-something
female professionals.
ERIKA CHRISTENSEN: What we're
dealing with
is the biological clock, and
these women want
the 35-to-45-year old man quick.
They want
him yesterday.
PAUL SOLMAN: So you mean that
you're sizing
up these guys as...
ERIKA CHRISTENSEN: Potential
baby daddies,
that's right.
PAUL SOLMAN: Since time is
money, clients
are willing to pay a couple of
grand or more,
sometimes much more. OkCupid, by
contrast,
is free. But, to Christensen,
you get what
you pay for.
ERIKA CHRISTENSEN: I think
online dating is
great, but it's basically humans
as commodities.
PAUL SOLMAN: There's another
objection to
online dating as well.
R.D. ROSEN, Author: OkCupid, by
making a huge
universe of people available to
you at any
minute, doesn't that work
against a rational
decision about whether to invest
in the relationship
you have?
PAUL SOLMAN: Writer R.D. Rosen,
who's used
online dating, is working on a
book about
how courtship is evolving.
R.D. ROSEN There's an enormously
addictive
quality to online dating that
has never existed
before in the culture. You want
to keep going
back, because you think you're
going to hit
the jackpot eventually.
PAUL SOLMAN: Rudder doesn't deny
it.
CHRISTIAN RUDDER: Whether you're
gay or straight,
we're constantly showing you
people. There
might be someone better looking
or who has
a cooler profile or whatever it
is just right
around the corner always.
PAUL SOLMAN: And not just gay or
straight.
JIMENA ALMENDARES, OkCupid: At
OkCupid, we
have 22 genders and 13
orientations.
PAUL SOLMAN: That's right, 22
genders and
13 orientations, including our
favorite, sapiosexual,
attracted to intelligence. And
to further
complicate, chief product
officer Jimena Almendares
has just added another option.
JIMENA ALMENDARES: Earlier this
year, we launched
a feature that if people are
searching for
someone else in their
relationship, they can
actually publicly state that and
people that
are interested can respond.
PAUL SOLMAN: To Paul Oyer,
though, a surfeit
of choice is just another search
cost, for
which economists have a fairly
simple solution:
PAUL OYER: What you need to do
is you need
to settle, to say, I have
somebody who's good
enough. People hate it when we
say that. But
it's the way -- it's the way a
rational economist
would think about it.
PAUL SOLMAN: But wait a minute.
After my first
date with my now wife, I knew
she was the
perfect mate. And last year was
our 30th anniversary.
PAUL OYER: The perfect one for
you doesn't
exist. But there's a very
important idea in
labor economics called
firm-specific human
capital. And that is, as you
work at a company
for a longer time, you have
certain skills
that are valuable at that
company and not
elsewhere.
Well, you have built up
something we will
call marriage-specific human
capital. You
have developed your life around
your wife,
such that she probably is the
best match for
you at this point.
PAUL SOLMAN: Meanwhile, our
daters had to
get back to their jobs.
So, how had it gone?
MIKE O'BEIRNE: So, we both found
out that
we had like way more in common
than we expected.
PRIYANKA PULIJAL: I felt we
really connected
about a lot of different things.
MIKE O'BEIRNE: I will probably
e-mail her
later.
PAUL SOLMAN: Actually, he
didn't. That same
week, he met a new flame.
Meanwhile, Priyanka began dating
an old friend.
A year later, they're still
going strong.
As for me, Paul Solman,
economics correspondent
for the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
still ever-so-happily
married, and wishing all of you,
online and
off, another welfare-maximizing
Valentine's
Day.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The newest
addition to the
"NewsHour" Bookshelf takes a
most intimate
look at one of the world's
oldest refugee
camps administered by the United
Nations,
originally established in 1991
as a temporary
haven for Somalis fleeing their
civil war.
Author Ben Rawlence recently
talked to Judy
Woodruff about his book "City of
Thorns: Nine
Lives in the World's Largest
Refugee Camp."
JUDY WOODRUFF: Ben Rawlence,
welcome.
BEN RAWLENCE, Author, "City of
Thorns: Nine
Lives in the World's Largest
Refugee Camp":
Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, we're hearing
a lot about
refugees these days, but you are
writing about
a group of refugees we hear
almost nothing
about.
What drew you to Kenya? What
drew to you this
camp?
BEN RAWLENCE: Well, for nearly
10 years, I
worked for Human Rights Watch.
And I first came to Dadaab, this
refugee camp,
in 2010. And the place just blew
my mind.
It was a complete shock to me
that I hadn't
heard about it before, and, in
fact, that
this place should still exist.
At that time,
it was 20 years old. And now
it's 25 years
old.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It started out as
something
much smaller, refugees -- one
group of refugees.
It's grown into something much
bigger and,
frankly, much worse.
BEN RAWLENCE: Yes.
I mean, Dadaab is the world's
biggest. The
Somali refugees came in 1991.
Since then,
Somalia has descended into
different phases
of a civil war, and there have
been waves
of refugees, more and more
coming, until it
peaked in 2011, with around
half-a-million
refugees living in this one
place.
It's a bit like New Orleans.
It's that many
people, but spread over 30
square miles. The
tents are made of -- or the
houses are made
of tents or sticks and mud. And
it's -- there's
no permanent structures. So,
there's no plumbing.
There's no concrete. There's no
running water.
It's a humanitarian disaster
still, even after
25 years. It's constructed on
temporary lines,
and yet it's become permanent.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It's people
living in conditions
it's almost impossible to
imagine. And yet
you write about how there's
organization there.
There's structure there.
BEN RAWLENCE: Well, you can deny
a city permanent
structures, but you can't deny
people the
right to associate and to make
societies.
And, of course, that's what's
happened. People
have made their own soccer
leagues. They have
fallen in love. There are many
love stories
in this book.
JUDY WOODRUFF: There are.
BEN RAWLENCE: The people have
had children.
And then, sometimes, those
children have had
children. So we're now on to
three generations.
And, of course, they're going to
school. There
are hospitals. There's a market,
a black market,
lots of smuggling and so on. So,
people have
nonetheless made a life for
themselves.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You picked just a
few individuals
to write about. And you tell
their stories
in a very powerful way. Why did
you choose
these individuals, these people?
BEN RAWLENCE: Well, firstly, I
was trying
very consciously to sort of
break open the
media ennui, if you like, kind
of -- you see
the eyes glaze when you talk
about refugees
and famine, because we think we
have seen
it all before.
We think we know what a refugee
camp look
likes, with these lines of tents
and so on.
We see Angelina Jolie and the
celebrities
doing their thing. But,
actually, what was
interesting to me is, what
happens when she
goes? What's daily life like for
all of these
people?
So, I wanted to really give you
a ground-eye
view of what goes on. And I
chose those nine
through a long process, really.
I started
with about 50 people, and then
nine made the
cut.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The world is --
has virtually
forgotten about this place, if
it ever knew
about it. What do you want
people to take
away from this?
BEN RAWLENCE: Well, the first
thing I wanted
to do was to make you feel, to
make you care
about the people stuck in this
place, because,
certainly, they feel forgotten.
In large part,
they have been ignored by the
international
media.
So, to get beyond the headlines,
to actually
see -- make you see these people
as humans,
with all the normal struggles
you would imagine,
of trying to find a job, make a
living, things
like that, to try and bridge the
gap, to make
people feel connected, that
these are not
just numbers, but these are
faces. These are
real people with hopes and
dreams.
And if we start thinking of
refugees more
in those -- in those ways,
hopefully, then
we can start seeing a bit more
intelligent
policy, a bit more humanity at
the political
level as well.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we're looking
at the faces
of a few of the people.
BEN RAWLENCE: Yes, these are the
some of the
people in the camp. This is my
friend Nisho,
the taller guy. And Mahat is his
young sidekick.
And they work as porters in the
market. They
load and off-load the trucks
that come in
smuggling goods from Somalia and
also a lot
of the food rations, because
they're not allowed
to work. Refugees can't leave.
They can't
work. So they have to find these
informal
jobs, scrabbling a living as
best they can.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What is it in
these young boys
and everyone else that gives
them the strength
to keep going? What is it inside
them?
BEN RAWLENCE: Well, that's one
of the questions
that drew me to write about the
place in the
first instance.
I couldn't understand, how do
you put up with
this? You know, why are there
not some kind
of mass riots and protests and
burning down
the U.N. office and so on? But
people do put
up with it because they have no
option. They
can't go back to Somalia. Kenya
doesn't want
them. The resettlement system,
where countries
share the burden of refugees
through the quota
system, is completely broken,
because the
birth rate in the camp, for
example, is 1,000
a month.
The international community
takes around 2,000
a year of people from Dadaab. So
that's why
people are choosing the illegal
route to come
to Europe or elsewhere, instead
of waiting
for the formal legal process.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What is the
future for them?
What's the hope for them?
BEN RAWLENCE: I'm afraid the
reality is, it's
pretty bleak.
I see no real solution for
Dadaab. And as
long as there's no international
solution
or political solution, the camp
will continue.
These people will be stuck in
limbo.
As I said, we're now on to our
third generation
of people living in this
situation. And this
is one city. There are many
other temporary
cities like this in Ethiopia, in
Sudan, in
Yemen, these cities that are
going on and
on, which is why I think we need
to hear about
this place. We need to
understand it. And
then we need a Marshall Plan for
refugees
that people have been talking
about.
We need to fix this broken
system, but the
world has gotten a bit harder, I
think, a
little less generous.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, Ben
Rawlence, you certainly
shine a light on to what's
happening there.
And more people will know about
it as a result
of the book.
It's "City of Thorns: Nine Lives
in the World's
Largest Refugee Camp."
Thank you very much.
BEN RAWLENCE: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Finally,
another installment
of Brief But Spectacular, our
series where
we ask interesting people to
describe their
passions.
Tonight, we hear from comedian
Billy Eichner,
star of "Billy on the Street" on
truTV and
the Hulu original series
"Difficult People."
He opens up about his comedic
style and process.
BILLY EICHNER, Comedian: We were
filming recently,
and someone yelled out from
across the street,
"Billy, please harass me," which
is a really
strange request.
"Billy on the Street" is a game
show in New
York City where I ambush people
on the street
with pop culture trivia. It also
features
celebrity guests helping me
ambush people.
My favorite segments are the
Super Bowl, where
I asked the New York giants what
they thought
of the Madonna halftime show.
Sir, are you excited about
Madonna?
MAN: Madonna?
BILLY EICHNER: Yes.
MAN: No, absolutely not.
BILLY EICHNER: Why? She's the
halftime show.
MAN: She's an old hag.
BILLY EICHNER: You're an old
hag!
Hey, did you see Madonna?
MAN: No.
BILLY EICHNER: She was amazing.
MAN: I was in the locker room.
BILLY EICHNER: OK.
We did a segment with the first
lady this
year, Michelle Obama, and I had
her push me
around in a shopping cart while
I read Gwyneth
Paltrow's Oscar acceptance
speech for "Shakespeare
in Love," which is what you do
when you have
the first lady on your show.
And away we go.
"I would like to thank the
Academy from the
bottom of my heart. I would like
to thank
our miraculous cast and crew."
For $1, be honest. Who is
hotter, Abraham
Lincoln or Barack Obama?
MICHELLE OBAMA, First Lady: Oh,
Barack Obama.
BILLY EICHNER: Oh, sorry, it's
Abraham Lincoln.
"Billy on the Street" is -- it's
a persona.
It's a performance. It's pretty
much my id
as a 12-year-old kid, like,
blown up.
"Difficult People," which is a
scripted half-hour
show on Hulu created by my
friend Julie Klausner,
a great writer, performer.
ACTRESS: I am starving.
BILLY EICHNER: I know. I'm
trying to order
food. There is no Wi-Fi.
ACTRESS: What are we supposed to
do, wander
around the neighborhood and try
to find something?
BILLY EICHNER: No. And you know
what kind
of food they are going to have
in this neighborhood?
It's going to be Turkish food
and tapas. Just
kill him.
ACTOR: A moment of silence for
the deceased,
please.
BILLY EICHNER: It's "Will &
Grace," but more
unattractive and more unlikable,
which is
what America wants.
I am gay. And I'm in comedy. I
don't know
what to say about it. I was so
blind to homophobia
as kid. I grew in New York. I
went to Stuyvesant,
a really nerdy math-science
school, where
no one had sex.
When everyone asks me, was it a
conscious
choice to be out of the closet
as a comedian,
I was like, I don't know. Was it
a conscious
choice to be white? I don't
know. This is
just like what I bring to the
table. It's
just not that big of a deal.
And we all have the same issues.
My gay married
friends with kids are just as
boring and annoying
as my straight married friends
with kids now.
And I don't want to hang out
with any of them,
to be honest.
Hi, I'm Billy Eichner, and this
is my Brief
But Spectacular take on the most
difficult
person I know, me.
HARI SREENIVASAN: You can find
more Brief
But Spectacular videos on our
Facebook page.
That's Facebook.com/NewsHour.
On the "NewsHour" online: How do
you capture
the majesty of a place like
Yosemite National
Park in one frame? It's a feat
the National
Park Service is hoping someone
will master
when it hires an official
photographer this
summer. So how do you do it? We
asked "National
Geographic" senior photo editor
Kathy Moran
for some tips. See those, plus a
photo gallery
of some of the most stunning
park photos,
on our home page.
And, remember, you can watch
tonight's Democratic
debate on PBS, and also in our
live stream.
That's on our home page as well.
That's PBS.org/NewsHour.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
Tune in to this PBS station at
9:00 p.m. Eastern.
Gwen Ifill and Judy Woodruff
moderate the
Democratic presidential debate
from Milwaukee,
plus analysis from Mark Shields
and David
Brooks.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and see you later tonight.